Susan Chabot
ALDS 5001
October 8, 2015

Introduction
To ask, "What does Applied Linguistics and Discourse Studies mean to you" is toacknowledge that there is no one definition for this discipline. While it may seem an extremely broad question, our group hoped that his answer would aide us in our own framing of ALDS. So, our group began our interview with Dr. David Wood with that question. The answer we received began a conversation that I believe did, in the end, help us understand more about the field. Asking a respected scholar within the field to define a discipline which has sometimes been described as "plagued by self-doubt, identity crises, and the fear of fragmentation since very early in its history" (Seidlhofer, 2003, p. 269) and having him answer that it is indefinable in some senses, was surprising. Despite the lack of definition of ALDS, our interview with Dr.Wood brought forth some very interesting answers. Of course, I went into the interview with my own pre-conceived notions of what I think applied linguistics is, and while some of my ideas were reinforced, I was also challenged to think in new directions.
As mentioned, my group's interview was with Dr. David Wood, who is an accomplished Associate Professor within Carleton's Applied Linguistics and Discourse study department.  His research focuses are TESL training, fluency and formulaic language.  He has extensive experience teaching ESL, especially EAP around the world.  He has also written and published an EAP textbook entitled "Making the grade: An interactive course in English for academic purposes," along with numerous research papers focusing on formulaic language, lexical bundles and second language fluency. Currently, he is utilizing corpuses to examine formulaic language, and is also continuing with his teacher training interests by helping to organize the annual TESL Ontario conference in Toronto. 
In this paper, I hope to convey how some of Dr. Wood's answers to our interview questions helped us to define the ALDS discipline and also to discover how his viewpoints fit within an established framework of research. While there are many different opinions on what applied linguistics is and is not, (Schmitt, N. & Celce-Murcia, M., 2002; Knapp 2013), and the breadth and depth of the readings and research I have done while at Carleton has certainly offered me many perspectives on how this discipline is extremely varied. 

What is ALDS?
This question seems so simple, and yet it is obvious to even a new ALDS student that there is much disagreement.  As Knapp(2013) makes very clear "there is no such consistent and undisputed understanding, neither about the aims and scope of applied linguistics nor about the theories and methods it is based on" (p.1). When we posed this question to Dr. Wood, the answer we received conveyed that despite the disagreement about what the discipline was, he was very sure where he stood. Dr. Wood believes that first and foremost, ALDS is about teaching. It is "the application of knowledge to language learning and teaching. Real world teaching applications makes up 80% of the field"(David Wood, personal communication, September 25, 2015). He described in his answer that while some believe the discipline may feel that it suffers from a lack of definition, he himself has never had any doubt about what ALDS is or how his own research fits into the discipline. (personal communication, September 25, 2015). This answer was very surprising, because it implied to me that there were few issues with scope in the applied linguistics side of the discipline. While this has always been a key element in ALDS (Schmitt, N. & Celce-Murcia, M., 2002), the field has expanded to include a vast array of other modes and domains (Knapp, 2013). Dr. Wood clearly sees himself as an applied linguist (personal communication, September 25, 2015), who has a well-defined and stable view of into which domain his research focus fits. 
I found this refreshing to a certain extent, as I come from a background of ESL teaching, and have sometimes found myself confused by how some of the domains of applied linguistics fit with others. Dr. Wood's answer to this question demonstrated that it is possible to see the value in many different avenues of applied linguistics, while still having a firm grasp on one's own research focus.

How Did You Discover Your Research Focus and Why Was it of Interest?
The next aspect of Dr. Wood's opinions we were interested in concerned how he came to be interested in formulaic language and fluency. We were interested specifically in why he chose that out of all the options for study within ALDS.  He explained that his work in ESL gave him an interest in gaining a deeper understanding for how language fluency develops, which "started a curiosity that wouldn't go away"(personal communication, September 25, 2015). Dr. Wood's research into the development of speech fluency with regards to formulaic language is a crucial aspect of applied linguistics which largely "concerns itself with language behaviour"(Sealey A. and Carter, B., 2010). Examining how language interacts with speakers is a key element of the discipline, and according to Dr. Wood, fluency and lexical bundles are "as fundamental as grammar or vocabulary"(personal communication, September 25, 2015) in the way that they facilitate communication, and should be taught with the same degree of importance. It was obvious from his answer that Dr. Wood's work has a large role to play in the application of language studies, especially as it relates to second language learners. 
 It is obvious that Dr. Wood is very passionate about his research, and that he sees the value of its application throughout the entirety of ALDS. He states that "the study of formulaic language permeates everything...It is integral to applied linguistics as I see it, especially language learning and teaching"(David Wood, personal communication, September 25, 20150). While there is no consensus on what applied linguistics is defined as (Knapp, 2013), I could tell from the interview that Dr. Wood believes that studying how language develops in ESL learners through fluency development is an extremely complex system that needs further study (personal communication, September 25, 2015). This segment of the interview was very interesting, as it gave insight into how Dr. Wood chose his speciality, first by discovering a research gap that he was interested in filling, and how that one research question led to a distinguished career of teasing out the interconnectedness of applied linguistics.  

How Does Your Research Apply to Pedagogy?
One of the questions my group and I were most interested in was concerning pedagogy.  We knew that Dr. Wood has focused much of his earlier work in EAP, specifically in designing his textbook.  We were curious to see how his pedagogical background led him to formulaic language and fluency. 
In short, Dr. Wood's stance is that applying the knowledge of discourse is essential to teaching, and that students need to be aware of discourse and how it functions from both an academic and everyday standpoint (personal communication, September 15, 2015). While Halliday teaches us that language has three different functions; ideational, interpersonal and textual (1973), all of those are the domain of necessary language to learn for ESL students. According to Dr. Wood, "Isolating language within texts" into lexical bundles "is an effort to isolate the discourse within a text" (personal communication, September 25, 2015).  So, while one might be surprised, as I think my group was, to learn that corpus linguistics analysis of lexical bundles gets at the discourse of anything, Dr. Wood made a compelling argument. 
What he explained was that language teaching has always isolated parts of speech, be it verbs or adjectives, to teach to students in small pieces. But now "we have moved away from language...being a combination of just words and grammars..." and that modern language pedagogy aims "to have a discourse-type content"(personal communication, September 25, 2015). Studying how language is grouped together and then applying it to pedagogical content allows students to move away from memorizing verbs, and move towards thinking of language more in terms of the purpose it fulfills. 
What Is Your Research Methodology?
When this question was posed by my group, I expected an explanation of qualitative linguistic analysis, mostly because most of the research I have encountered thus far in applied linguistics has been qualitative, especially that which focused on second language learning, and also because when I pictured studying lexical bundles, it sounded like it would use textual analysis, rather than a quantitative research approach.
Dr. Wood's reply to this question turned out to be far more complex than we had thought. He stated that it's "quantitative in the sense that it's not qualitative." (David Wood, personal communication, September 25, 2015). What was most interesting about this is that earlier in the interview, he had said that his research fit very nicely into applied linguistics, and that he definitely sees himself as an applied linguist, and that the AL in ALDS was a very clear discipline, while most of the confusion came from discourse studies (personal communication, September 25, 2015).  But now here he was, explaining that his research perhaps did not fit into the tidy box he had described earlier. 
We asked him about this and he had more to say about his specific research methodology and the difficulty of labelling it. "I don't think [my research] fits in that sort of binary. I don't know how to characterize it. "He described "getting chunks of university textbooks and scanning those...for frequent four work combinations which have a meaning or a function. Is that quantitative? Is that qualitative?"(David Wood, personal communication, September 25, 2015).  What this explanation of methodology concerning functional linguistics demonstrated to me was that there is possibly some truth to what Widdowson(2000) described as "a persistent and pervasive uncertainty about the nature of the enquiry"(p. 3). Dr. Wood's observations about his methology definitely revealed that this discipline is extremely dynamic, and that even those scholars who are very keenly aware of their place within it can be sometimes trapped by the language the field is couched in.  
Conclusion
When we began our interview with asking Dr. Wood how he defines applied linguistics and discourse studies, I was expecting to hear about language teaching and formulaic language. I was also expecting to hear a discussion of corpus study. But this interview had some surprises; namely that Dr. Wood chooses not to define his research methodology as only qualitative or quantitative.  The other aspect of surprise in the interview, was listening to him describe the potential for further research within his specialty.  While a definitive answer on what the discipline can be described as may not be any closer than it was before the interview, it was clear that Dr. Wood's research in the complex system of language, motivation and fluency, will continue to make others consider the field in even more new ways.






References
Celce-Murcia, M. & Schmitt, N. (2002). An overview of applied linguistics. In N. Schmitt (ed.),      
      An introduction to applied linguistics. (pp. 1-18).
Halliday, M. A., K. (1978). Language as social semiotic: The social interpretation of language and 
      meaning (pp. 1-5, 8-35). London: Edward Arnold.
Knapp, K. (2013). Applications in applied linguistics: Modes and domains. AILA Review, 26, 1- 
      9.
School of Linguistics and Language Studies. (n.d.). Retrieved September 28, 2015. 
	https://carleton.ca/slals/people/wood-david/.
Widdowson, H. G. (2000). On the limitations of linguistics applied. Applied linguistics, 21(1), 3-
      25.

Defining a Discipline		Chabot 5


