Susan Chabot
ALDS 5703
Oct. 1, 2015
      If I had to choose one thing that I took away from this week's readings, it would be that, despite differences in approach and methodologies, there are nonetheless many similarities between different perspectives on genre. 
	There were many different schools of thought being discussed in the readings, however what they seemed to boil down to, to me, was what Bawarshi and Reiff (2010) describe as "deductive and inductive text typologies"(37). Essentially, there are either texts that fit an overarching genre, or textual patterns that build up a genre (38).  This was an important distinction for me, as it helped me see a larger perspective on the difference between the schools of thought we have been discussing in class.  It also allowed me to see why corpus research would be so popular within the field of genre studies, which is something I had been confused about previously. I can now see that many genre scholars come at their research from the language patterns up to the genre, instead of down from the prescribed genre.
	Another aspect of the Bawarshi and Reiff chapter that I found refreshing, was the discussion of topological classifications.  I think most of my experience with genre out in the "real world" has been topological, where texts vary in increments of "textiness" and serve as a way  for teachers "to identify the most and least salient features of different academic and workplace genres so that these can be taught more realistically"(39). I had been wondering if there were degrees to which a text could fit in a genre, and how to classify multimodal texts, and this idea of topological genre analysis cleared a lot of those questions up. I think this idea of degrees of suitability in a genre is something most teachers know instinctively, especially those teaching reading and writing. When looking for samples in "the real-world", educators need to be able to evaluate if the text suits their purpose; does it have introductory sentences for every paragraph, does it have a thesis at the end, is the citation style the same as what is being taught. Deciding how strictly a text needs to adhere to a genre in order to be effective is a key element of teaching.
	I also really appreciated Bhatia's (1996) research, as he lays out very clearly, the vast amount of similarities between different schools of genre thought.  It seemed to me that all three of the schools he discusses have, at their core, a belief that genres serve many purposes, and that we all have structured knowledge of how genres work (1996). While the schools are divided on how to approach studying genres; "genre as typified rhetorical action"(41), "Genre as a staged, goal oriented social process"(43) and "Genre as conventionalized communicative event"(46), Bhatia's discussion of how the different schools of thought are similar allowed me to understand that no matter the school of thought, communicative purpose is always at the heart of genre research.
	Of course, this leads into the final reading, in which Askeheave and Swales (2001) fall down a rabbit hole of pinning down the definition of communicative purpose.  The authors use cases to demonstrate that purpose is not always clear (207) and that placing things like shopping lists based on communicative purpose can be more difficult than it seems. While I understand that defining the key vocabulary in a field of study is crucial, I also think that Askehave and Swales are out on a bit of a limb by stating that "it would be prudent to abandon communicative purpose as an immediate or even a quick method for sorting discourses..."(207). Despite Swales being a prolific contributor to the field of genre studies, I find the idea that he could redesign both text and content driven genre studies to be a bit hubristic. 
	Overall, this week's readings provided me with some great overviews of the commonalities and differences between different genre schools. It was interesting to read about the common grounds between different research approaches, and even though I question Askehave and Swales communicative purpose, I do think that there is value in returning to the aspects of a field of study to look for clearer definitions and purpose. 
References
Askehave, I., & Swales, J. M. (2001). Genre identification and communicative purpose: A problem and a possible solution. Applied linguistics, 22(2), 195-212.
Bawarshi, A. S., & Reiff, M. J. (2010). Genre: An introduction to history, theory, research, and pedagogy. West Lafayette, IN: Parlor Press.
Bhatia, V. K. (1996). Methodological issues in genre analysis. Hermes, Journal of Linguistics no, 16, 39-59.


	
