Susan Chabot
Sept. 10, 2015
ALDS 5207
After completing this week's course readings, I found myself feeling very fortunate for having taken two undergraduate courses in writing and genre last year.  I began the readings with an already solid understanding of what genre is at it pertains specifically to academic discourse and academic writing.  While that is obviously only a small piece of what was discussed in this week's texts, it gave me a solid foundation from which to start. 
Before this week, I believed that genre could be defined along the lines of a type of text that can be categorized based on either its action or its language. The term also made me think of concepts specific to academic writing, such as hedging, knowledge claims and citation style.  After this week's readings it is obvious that academic writing is only one small part of genre studies, which was a bit of a relief for me. 
I actually did not find Bawarshi and Reiff's breakdown of the different genre traditions to be very helpful. It was not very in depth, and more alluded to the fact that there were traditions, versus defining them in any way (7). This is the opposite of Hyon's work, which attempts to highlight the differences between ESP, Rhetoric Approach and the Sydney school (694). I think Bawarshi and Reiff were attempting to provide a broad lens through which to view genre, whereas Hyon's paper was meant to be, as Swales describes "a useful heuristic"(113), which "is quoted-for its map-making achievements"(112). So in short, the difference between the two works is that one mentions the three traditions of genre studies as part of a larger discipline, while Hyron's work is focused squarely on the definition and application of these frameworks. 
Swales' own commentary about the three traditions shares more similarities with Bawarshi and Reiff, as they both mention frameworks that Hyon's paper did not. Bawarshi and Reiff point to Brazil, and the influence of genre studies academics from that region (10), while Swales also mentions the Academic Literacies approach as a candidate for another genre tradition to consider (113).  Both works clearly believe that the three traditions put forth by Hyon are still relevant and influential 20 years on, but that there are emerging voices to pay attention to as well. 
I think what I'm most interested in, because of my own focus on digital curriculum development, is to see how these genre traditions can be utilized to design better EAP programs.  Perhaps looking at new digital genres like websites, blogs and social media posts, would help in the creation of content-based, relevant curriculum.  Ideally, I would like to see how I can merge some of the interesting frameworks being put forth by these authors, can merge with my own research interests, as the class moves forward. 
  
	
