Susan Chabot
ALDS 5001
Sept. 28, 2015
Reflection #3

Swales and Feak Task 1
1. Move 1 is sentences 1-7. Move 2 is sentence 7-10. Move 3 is sentence 11 and 12. 
 2: I divided the text into three paragraphs, with the second paragraph beginning at "His best known pictures..." and the third beginning at "Among Eakin's pictures..."(Swales and Feak, 1994). 
3. I would divide move 1 into 1a and 1b at sentence 2. The first sentence of the paragraph lists the research subject as influential, and the very next sentence describes previous exhibitions and leads into a discussion of the painter's best known work.
4. John establishes his niche by indicating a gap in the previous research, as he points out that this series of paintings were ignored because they were thought to be insignificant or small (245).
5. John's 3a move is to state that his research subject is significant despite having been ignored by previous researchers, and states that his research has found that there are "complex sets of motives" behind the painter's intention, which he will now discuss (245).
6. "recognized as one of the greatest American painters", "distinguished by compositional brilliance and attention to detail", 
7. There are four footnotes and one in-text citation.
8. I believe that the footnotes are all properly placed, as they add extra information that is non-essential to the introductory paragraph.  Citation practice in the introductory paragraph is often genre-specific, and in the humanities, it's common that there be less in text citations as it can be seen as taking away from the narrative and distracting readers from the author's attempts to create a research space.  That being said, I do think sentence 5 is superfluous and could be moved to a footnote. 

Questions for the Weekly Reading
      The main objective of this paper was to provide more attention to the macro-structures of applied linguistics research articles (264). It is important because genre knowledge is crucial to "helping language learners to understand and master...discourse"(264). The authors investigate by randomly selecting 40 articles from four journals from the mid 1990s, and then analyzing their headings.  The authors used primary and secondary articles to create a corpus to examine (266). They used the Introduction-Method-Results-Discussion framework written about by Swales (1990) as a starting point for analysis. The authors also drew upon Hyon (1996), Hyland (2000) and many other genre scholars to build a theoretical framework. Their findings seemed vague, mostly that not all RAs followed the IMRD method, and that it was difficult to do a macro-analysis of applied linguistics RAs, and that further research was needed (275). They concluded that this differentiation may be a result of "the difference in authors' understatnding of the function of the Introduction or the requirement of a particular topic"(275). Overall, I did not find the discussion convincing, because I remain unconvinced of the importance of the study in the first place. It does answer the research questions put forth by the authors though, and leaves the door open for future research.
Oakley, Activity 1
2. Previous Author: Fairclough, Kumaravadivelu
     Writer's Opinion: Agrees
    Words or phrases: "puts this very well" "much can be learned"
3. Previous author: Waters
    Opinion: Disagree
     Phrase: "it is very difficult to accept Waters' opinion"
4. Previous Author: Jenkins
    Opinion: Agree
    Phrase: "As is the case with any innovation" 
5.Previous Author: unknown
   Opinion: disagree
   Phrase: "But the fact" "casts doubt" 
6. Previous author: Krashen
    Opinion: Disagrees (with a caveat) 
   Phrases: "suggests Krashen is mistaken in this" "But this does not deny..."



