Susan Chabot
ALDS 5001
September 14, 2015

Reflection 1
The question of what Applied Linguistics actually is, is something I've thought about a lot before this week's readings.  This is mostly because I had assumed I knew exactly what it was before I began my qualifying year last year, and was utterly confused during my first week of classes.I remember sitting through a lecture on writing and the creation of discourse communities, followed by another lecture about what the word literacy actually meant, followed at the end of the week with a grammar lecture that involved something that looked terrifying similar to math equations.  I was angry; this wasn't applied at all, it was, in my mind at least, extremely theoretical!
When you come into ALDS with teaching experience but mostly hands on, or pedagogical training, it can be extremely difficult to grasp why anyone would need, or want to know how discourse communities form. I was a successful and creative teacher, would it really make a difference if I knew these things? I remember feeling frustrated more than once with the term "applied" as it related to my course work. 
Obviously, things have changed for me now. This week's readings reaffirmed much of what I learned the term "applied linguistics means."  The study of how language is used, how language and action are intertwined, the role of different pedagogies in approaching second language learners; the list is obviously extensive.  I saw how these frameworks are woven into the curriculum I use on a daily basis, and also how it informed my TESL trainers; they taught us about Krashen and Bazerman and Swales and also Bakhtin a bit too, but in a way that was directly relating it to our on-the-job experience. 
This week's selection of readings forced me back to my TESL; now when I look at some of my old textbooks and assignment sheets, I see them differently. I can see the theory behind them, and how the research being done in ALDS does in the end, affect actual working teachers and their students.
